---
layout: bake
title: Bagels
date: 2025-08-04 1:00:00 -0500
---

## Starter Refresh
 - Starter didn’t really rise in first or second period, but was bubbly.

## Levain
 - Rose well.

## Mix
 - After kneading, the dough had some folds that didn’t close, but it was mostly smooth. This is apparently ok.
 - Overshot DDT by 5F (83F), but should still be fine. Next time, use a 5F friction factor. Maybe less in the winter, because I was getting a little hot so my hands probably added a significant portion of that.

## Bulk Fermentation
 - Wasn’t bubbly or jiggly but sounded hollow-ish, which I took as a good sign, and it seemed well fermented and slightly bubbly during shaping.
 - If possible, try doing bulk fermentation in a glass pyrex (if it looks like it will fit) so it’s easier to gauge the rising.

## Shape
 - Take off 125g pieces from the dough one at a time, because they kind of started drying out while I was shaping some into balls.
 - When going back through to stretch them more, add an extra layer of cornmeal so they don’t stick.

## Proof
 - They never really puffed much but it turned out fine.

## Boil and Bake
 - Bagels stuck to tray when trying to get them into the pot, so add more cornmeal next time underneath them.
 - Some of the bagels had air bubbles that browned much faster, so make sure to really press out the air during shaping next time.
 - Temperature drop for second batch didn’t seem to do much. Could try 25F temperature reduction (425F convection --> 400F convection) next time (as recommended by the book for dark spots), but I think I could have gotten a better color if I hadn’t felt like I needed to take them out early so the air bubbles didn’t burn.
