---
layout: bake
title: Bagels
date: 2025-08-02 1:00:00 -0500
---

## Levain
 - In the morning, the levain was 94F. This is much too warm—the ideal temperature in the room of the levain is 74-76F. Next time, just leave out on counter. This likely weakened the starter.

## Mix
 - Use more water for the slurry (maybe 1/2 cup?), because 1/4 cup was not enough to effectively dissolve the salt and sugar and incorporate the barley malt syrup.
 - Reserve water again, but add only in very small increments (maybe a teaspoon) to avoid overshooting the hydration. Also, apparently you should wait until the dough is more developed (once it’s been kneaded for a little while) to decide to add more water.
 - Doesn’t necessarily need to pass the windowpane test, but dough flattened during proofing, so more strength may be necessary. This is probably not the main problem, though.
 - Measure final dough temperature.

## Bulk Fermentation
 - Temperature was probably fine—it was likely the weak levain that prevented it from rising. I wouldn’t change anything about this process for next time—try leaving it out on the counter again.

## Proof
 - Ideally, the dough will be stronger and more active next time, so a second room temp session will be unnecessary. I was trying to let the dough proof for the same amount of time that it would have in the fridge, but I wasn’t checking on it enough in the oven, which likely made it overproof. Just check on it often.
 - No matter what, definitely chill for at least an hour before boiling to make handling easier before boiling.
 - Bagels spread more than rose, which made them flatter and larger, and less round.

## Boil and Bake
 - Although the batches passed the poke test (which is not necessarily a good indicator of readiness for bagels, apparently), they were very wrinkled, which is a sign of overproofing.
 - First batch didn’t puff when boiling, or really in the oven either, nor did they blister.
 - I read that overproofed bagels benefit from shorter boiling time, which seemed to help a bit, but the overall consensus online is that longer boiling is better for the crust (40 seconds should be good)
 - Second batch puffed marginally more and had slightly better browning, but they were basically the same.
 - I’ve read that adding barley malt syrup to the water when boiling is beneficial for the crust, so I would try that next time. (1 tbsp/qt water)

