---
layout:      post
title:       Bread Log 2.0
date:        2026-06-29 14:43:00 -0500
description: Going over my new and improved bread log.
tags:        coding, bread
---

One of the best ways to improve in sourdough baking is to take lots of notes each bake for future improvements, but I’m pretty bad at it. I think if I had done it more when starting out, I might have improved a lot faster. I made a bread log on Google Docs for this last summer, and I even created a Google Apps Script Web App to update it, but it was pretty clunky to use and I never really looked at it after inputting each bake. After a month or two when school started up again, I stopped using it.

But now that I’ve had more time this summer, I decided to give it another go with my Bread Log 2.0 (located [here](https://liambrandyberry.com/bread-log/)) in the hopes that I’ll actually use it this time. Now I have way nicer formatting, and I also made a client to update my current bake on my local network, which can be found on my GitHub at [bread-log-backend](https://github.com/liamb09/bread-log-backend).

Similar to my bread shop website, I went with Python Flask for the backend. This makes it really easy for me to send simple ``add-note`` requests to my old laptop (the site is only accessible on my local network), which then returns the up-to-date formatted entry for the current bake as it will look on the final bread log site. In the backend, I’m just editing a ``json`` file for the current bake, from which I can then very easily generate a markdown file when I’m ready to push the current bake to the final site. To do this, I used the GitHub API and its corresponding PyGitHub python package, which made it really easy for me to just upload that generated markdown to the final site.

And that was it! After having done all the learning about Flask for the bread shop project, this came together really quickly, and it’s satisfying to have a more dedicated, aesthetic bread log that I can use now.

This can also be easily adapted for your own use. You can just check out my [liambrandyberry.com repo](https://github.com/liamb09/liambrandyberry.com) to see how I used Jekyll to generate the static site for the bread log homepage and each bake. If you add your own ``_bakes/`` directory to your GitHub Pages site, you can copy almost everything from my [bread-log-backend](https://github.com/liamb09/bread-log-backend), adding the correct repository name and setting your own Personal Access Token in ``push_to_gh.py``, and you’ll be all set.